bfoclass:: [[history]]
type:: [[Assessment]]
person:: [[Aleksandr Turkhanov]]

- # 2023
- ## Understand Self
	- maturitylevel:: 3 - Senior Manager or Specialist
	  note:: We gather feedback to develop self-awareness and remain effective, to be at our best at all times.
	- I use my understanding of myself to find ways to impact others successfully.
	  collapsed:: true
		- My real long-year passion is the philosophy of engineering and epistemology (a set of methods for learning what we think we know). These are highly abstract topics that usually are of no interest to the systems engineering and project management communities because it is difficult to find them some practical application.
		- I studied them for years, but in 2021, I learned about product management and felt I could connect the dots between the theory and practice for the community. After all, many founders and heads of product came from anthropology, sociology, or philosophy backgrounds, for example, the CEO of Roam Research or some guests in the Machine Learning Street Talk podcast. However, it was difficult for me to deliver these ideas clearly and concisely, so I asked for advice from a few very experienced human resource development professionals and followed it through.
		- I trained myself extensively in clear communication principles with the Minto pyramid, a book by Professor Bean, "Engaging Ideas," and storytelling courses. I started to write and talk about it, trying to bridge the gap between high theory and everyday practice. After a while, I learned how to talk about these topics during my sales pitches. For example, I explain in plain English why their customers need such competencies as semantical engineering or ontology modeling to build profitable AI solutions. I also built up my audience: product managers, software engineers, and executives, who read and share my thoughts.
		- Thus, my deep interest found its way to other people and has tangible dimensions that can be measured.
	- I seek opportunities to learn from my colleagues.
	  collapsed:: true
		- I was always eager to create my own business and tried to do that several times. Starting a business requires you to set many goals in different timescales. Some of them you achieve, and some you do not. And it would be best if you learned from these mistakes, as they are significant opportunities to remain effective and be at our best.
		- For example, one of the significant shifts I made on this path was when I changed my mindset from being an engineering leader to becoming a product manager with a strong focus on solving customers' problems. That change required me to learn many obvious but difficult-to-implement things from my colleagues. For example, I changed the way I communicate with engineers now. I am more focused on the overall customer experience of the solutions we are delivering. I try never to forget to think at what moment the users think that we are delivering value for them and why are they paying us. And that is one of the big things I learned from my colleagues.
		- Also, I started to see opportunities to learn in everyday discussions, not only during performance reviews or retrospective sessions. I re-thought my approach and priorities, how I carve time to identify my points of improvement, and what my to-do should look like - it is much less technical now and a lot more oriented on our collective efficiency in internal and external communications and the success of our customers.
		- Moving from managing engineering teams with project management methods to leading product development teams to achieve customer success taught me to seek opportunities to learn a lot from my colleagues.
	- I show resilience when working with many priorities.
	  collapsed:: true
		- How the feedback is helping? How do I measure my efficiency?
		- Being head of product demands a lot from you, especially when trying to hit a work-life balance. For example, in 2023, we need to deliver on the Innovate UK grant, develop the Terraphim.AI product, and launch London-based consultancy Zestic.AI while still doing the research and understanding what is happening in the AI field. Though all these activities are well-aligned, they introduce many competing priorities that I need to get straight.
		- First of all, I register them all and revisit them regularly so as not to miss ample opportunities that can come from not obvious things like some old podcast or meeting memos from a couple of years ago. And I rarely filter them out all by myself. I am assessing the viability and value of these opportunities with my colleagues. That helps me understand priorities clearly at each moment and properly manage the expectations of the stakeholders and team.
		- I constantly face different and conflicting priorities in my job because this is the nature of product management. I understand the full scope of my obligations and responsibilities using careful task tracking and information management. I build my to-do list using structured feedback from colleagues, customers, and others to optimize my workflow and get the most important things done. I find the sources of my resilience in positive feedback and the efficiency of the described process.
	- MAP TO APTITUDES RESULTS and to the structured role descriptions
- ## Understand Others
  collapsed:: true
	- maturitylevel:: 3SE and above - Senior Executive - Director
	  note:: We pay attention to others, respect and value diversity to work effectively together.
	- I have deep insight into others' views and frames of reference.
	  collapsed:: true
		- I communicate with people from different countries, cultures, and business customs backgrounds in my work. That happened especially a lot during the first year after I moved to Spain and changed my profession and industry together with the country of residence. Most of the contacts are short-term and rare, but some last for years, so I use a comprehensive set of tools and techniques to remember and track all of them, and recall their interests, preferences, and viewpoints.
		- First of all, I have trained my memory for many years now to hold as many details as possible using the Velcro model and the palace of memory, and on top of that, I base technical tools and techniques, like Hofstede Insights for countries cultural profiling. I memorize not only the position of the people, but also their roles and key words they use to describe themselves, which helps me to identify their domains of expertise and interests properly. I am very disciplined in applying these details when I interpret a feedback from people, especially when it comes to organize work in teams with different cultures.
		- Such a situation was when I was a manager in the project where the customer was from a rigid, strict, and bureaucratic corporation with high reliance on long-lasting personal relations, and the developers were from a flat organization and got used to equal and direct communications. And the project was important for both of them because the CEOs already signed the contract and ordered to deliver the results to both of the teams. That project required from me to be a diplomatic interpreter between those groups and be very aware of how those people see and frame different situations and why did they consider that the other party was playing some game, while it was cultural and stylistic differences. I often explained the significance of small details to the message and fixed  a lot of misunderstanding between the teams.
		- Not without some tensions the project was completed, and all parties learned a lot about paying attention to other peoples' views and the way they can frame the same situation in the room, like who seats where, dress code, and the order of talking, pauses, and selection of words and formulation of topics. And since that project I am even more aware to the communication frames between people because I understand that such things affect a lot on their perception.
	- I model an inclusive and flexible working style to encourage others to be effective with people from diverse backgrounds.
	  collapsed:: true
		- In one of my projects, the team members were from different industries. They had different companies in the background, and there was a constant clash between very demanding and a bit unstructured management and developers and researchers who were shy to speak their mind and explain the consequences of some executive decisions. Many major problems grew from insignificant issues because of lacking communication.
		- My primary task was to build such communication channels and plug qualified expert opinion and expertise into the decision-making. That required to classifying the decisions and identifying typical routes and decision points in the organization. And after that explain to the stakeholders what do they gain if they change the way they got used to. To adopt the new process, many compromises and trade-offs needed to be made, and many months of presentations and reports, measurements, and working style adaptations had to be made.
		- For example, some decisions required an expert opinion or advice outside of working hours because of business customs, and there was no way to change that reality. I talked engineers into answering the phone and messages in their free time explaining that they still will benefit from it because later on they will not need to fix the consequences of ungrounded promises.
		- Implementing that action plan allowed the organization to leverage the internal knowledge to be more efficient and communicate not only between functional wells, but also between organizational levels.
- ## Be Agile
  collapsed:: true
	- maturitylevel:: 3SE and above - Senior Executive - Director
	  note:: We are positive, open minded and have the flexibility to change.
	- I remain positive in the face of resistance and continue to generate momentum and support for change.
	  collapsed:: true
		- I launched several project management offices and it always met a lot of resistance because this is a big change for people - more control, more paperwork, and more discipline. Nobody likes that until the benefits kick in, which is months later. For example, when I was starting the PMO at the retail chain, there was almost no supporting processes and knowledgeable personnel in the organization to help me do that, so I needed a chain of quick wins to build a momentum and support for this initiative.
		- I talked to almost all people in the office and identified a small number of areas and departments with which I could start and get the first results. I used those results to explain others, who were hesitant, what do I mean when I talk about the project management. Then I gathered the feedback and objections from them and used it to build a training course together with human resource department. This course was part of the development track for the talent pool so I build awareness of project management tools and methods and further extended my support base.
		- I always was in touch with reality and knew where I had my weak and strong points and build my support step by step, which allowed me finally to perform bigger and lasting change.
	- I encourage people to adopt new ways of working to remove obstacles to change.
	  collapsed:: true
		- When launching project management office and introducing the process-based approach into product development, an organization usually faces overload of corporate email and raise of the number of coordination meetings. And my job as head of PMO was to help people to adapt new ways of working, like actively using workspaces in SharePoint, Confluence, and Notion, and adopt task trackers like Jira to manage projects properly. But such adoption required developing of proper scalable methodology so these workspaces and task trackers remain usable after a year of work and explaining the way of working in very small and practical bits to fit the tight schedule of the people who will do the job.
		- Such a situation happened when I was starting PMO in engineering company. One specific task was to set up proper purchasing process that was aligned with R&D activities and contract schedules. The old procedure did not work well with new types of contracts the company introduced, and I was in charge to develop and build the new one. The business analysis and process development itself were simple, but adopting it required to track more then two hundred of supply contracts, so I build process automation to manage the process.
		- I explained the new process and how to operate the IT procurement system to engineers, project managers, finance and accounting, and purchasing departments. After a short adoption period I collected the feedback and made number of changes both in the process and automation to better suit user needs and explained them what changed and why. It took me a while to identify all major obstacles and build a case for this system, but finally all people in the company accepted that this way is better for them and removes a lot of problems downstream, so after a year the change became stable and successful.
	- I provide direction in uncertain situations.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Project and product management is full of uncertain situations in which people need to make some decisions. As I deal with such situations on a daily basis, I have a whole framework to work with that. One of my favorite tools is the islands of clarity, I use it when someone tells me that everything is uncertain. I ask if all the situations have the same uncertainty levels and of course they are not. We start with more concrete situations and find together if there is something that is necessary to do and if there are things that need to be avoided. And after couple of such iterations the uncertainty decreases enough to remove the action block.
		- I also use a lot of tools from Less Wrong, like scenario planning, or monetary assessment of alternatives, and in complicated cases I can use simulation tools like Monte Carlo analysis. I can deal with uncertainty on many levels - from personal decision-making to risk reduction in larger projects with a number of stakeholders and complicated failure modes.